Hello everyone and welcome to The Last Lecture.
Formally speaking these are going to be like singly linked lists but you can just think of them as an
immutable sequence of elements.
Let's go ahead and show you how you can use and build lists in Scala by jumping to the spark shell and
the interpreter going to go ahead and go to my command prompt now.
OK here I am at my command prompt.
If you're a Mac users will be your terminal.
I've started SPARC shell and I have the Skala interpreter.
Let me go ahead and show you how you can create a basic list of numbers.
We'll go ahead and create a value called evens.
Say equals and they will say capital L I S T.
And then we can pasan a list of elements.
In this case I'm just going to pass on integers and go ahead and just put in even integers here.
So two four six eight 10 hit enter and then notice what scolloped puts out.
It says evens is the object name.
And then it has lists and in brackets it says I.A. meaning this list solely consists of integers.
Now you can actually put in mixed types into a list.
For example I can just say list here and then pasan one say to point to a boolean and close that off.
And you know now Ill say list any vowel meaning any sort of data type can be found in this list so you
can go ahead and have mixed data types inside of a list.
And Scala will try its best to inform you of the contents of the data types in that list.
Let me go ahead and show you how you can index items from a list.
We'll go ahead and use evens.
That's the list we just made up.
Two four six eight ten you can say the name of the list.
And then in parentheses you're going to go ahead and put in the index you want.
So for example if I want the very first index for a list indexing starts at zero.
So you can go ahead and say events of 0 that's going to be the integer to that very first item in this
list.
So for example to want that integer 10.
Well that's going to be 0 1 2 3 4.
So we'll go in and say evens parentheses 4 and we get back that integer 10.
Let me go ahead and show you a couple of different methods that you may find useful for a list.
If you go ahead and say evens dots and then hit tab you'll actually receive a whole list of various
methods and attributes and call off this list.
Let me go in and just show you some of the more useful ones.
One of the more useful ones is the head.
And that's going to be the very first item in the list.
In this case it's just two.
And then you can also call evens that tail and that's going to return everything.
But the head to everything.
But that first item.
And let me go ahead and explain a little more about element types when you nest lists.
You can actually nest lists together so a list can hold multiple lists and Skala has a really interesting
way of showing you when you do that sort of operation.
Let me go and control L here to clear that screen and I'll say Val my underscore list is equal to list
and I'm going to go ahead and then put in another list.
One two three.
So those are all integers and then I'll put in another list as the second item in the most outre list
and I will go in and say four five six and look at what Skala does when it returns it says my list.
But interestingly it says list.
Square brackets another list and the square brackets again integers.
So Scott is actually smart enough to know that this is a nested list where the inside lists just have
integers inside of them and you can also make a list of tuple pairs.
So we've already worked of tuples in the Scala a basic section of the course.
But sometimes people like to use them with less as well.
So you can say that my underscore a list and then we're going to go ahead to do tuple pairs.
So say a and one as one two ball and we'll say be good as a string to as another tuple and then say
C comma 3.
So we have a list here of three tuples.
We'll go ahead and hit enter and notice again that skull is actually pretty smart in understanding what
is in this list.
It tells you you have a list in there and inside of it you have tuples in the form string comma integer.
Let me go ahead and show you a few list operations.
So I'm going to go ahead and make a list here will say thou my list and I'm going to assign this as
list and I'm going to put in some random numbers here.
So go ahead just put his arm round numbers scattered out of order.
Let's see you want to sort this list a useful method for that operation is to call that sorted off of
this object so my list thought sorted and it goes ahead and returns the sorted version of that list.
Other operations you may want to do is trying to figure out how large your list is.
You can use that size to figure out how many items are in your list and then you can also do things
such as Max Min and other mathematical operations.
So for example if you have a list of integers or doubles recone for mathematical operations on those
elements you can say something like my list that Max and that will return the max value in that list.
You can do my list of men for the minimum value you can say my list some are the actual sum of all those
numbers.
So all those numbers sum and you can do the same thing for the product of those numbers.
And like I mentioned you can do that and then click tab to see a variety of options and methods and
operations you can perform on a list.
But right now these are the most basic ones.
Let me go ahead and show you how you can use drop for slicing going to go ahead and clear this there
are various ways to get a slice of a list.
One way is to use the drop method or the take right method.
So for example if I go ahead and create a list will say that x is equal to the list of just 1 2 3 4.
So a very simple list here I can say X stop drop and then the inputs and index location.
So in this case that's going to be two.
And it's going to drop the head up to 2.
So 0 1 and then it's going to start at 2.
This is kind of a modified version of tail.
And another way to do that is with take.
Right.
So take right.
You go ahead and pasan a number.
So for instance I say take rate one it goes ahead and starting from the right side or the right hand
side of that list.
It grabs as many elements as you asked for.
So if we wanted for instance two three four.
Well that's going to be three elements from the right of that list.
Now I've shown you the drop and take right methods but the most common way you're probably going to
be taking specific slices of a list is just by using the slice key word that we've actually seen before.
So for instance if I have a list we'll go ahead and make a new one here.
A couple more elements in it.
One two three four five six seven eighths go ahead and make that our list.
I can say X slice.
And then print sees all input a starting index comma and then the last index that I want.
So for instance if I want to start at zero and then go up to and including index three.
So that's going to be up to the third element.
So that should be 0 1 2 and I get back 1 2 3.
So that makes sense because I'm asking for everything up to and not including that index three elements.
And you can go ahead and kind of play around with this and make sure you understand that as far as the
indexing starting at zero that can be confusing sometimes.
For instance let's go ahead and try to grab four five six.
So it's going to start at 0 1 2 3 elements.
And then I want to get grab all the way up to 6 so let's go ahead and run that.
And there we have four five six.
OK.
That's really all you need to know right now as far as the basics of lists.
Thanks everyone.
I'll see you at the next lecture.